Sex alleviates tension. Love causes it.
Confidence is what you have before you understand the problem.
Eighty percent of success is showing up.
You can live to be a hundred if you give up all the things that make you want to live to be a hundred.
God is either cruel or incompetent.
My one regret in life is that I am not someone else. 
A dictator wants the same thing as the people: to decide everything himself.
A person whose appearance has considerably changed after the interrogation must file for a new ID card.
What's the use of democracy being on our doorstep when we are not at home?!
We introduced democracy painlessly. We didn't even feel it.
If everybody else agrees, I will also vote for change!
An aphorism is a dribbling of the spirit within a limited space.
An aphorism is proof that even great plays can be played on a small stage.
At any given moment, we know what we want. We just don't know when that moment is. 
Behind every great fortune there is a crime.
A lover teaches a wife all her husband has kept hidden from her.
A rent in your clothes is a mishap, a stain on them is a vice.
A married woman is a slave you must know how to seat upon a throne.
Life is simply what our feelings do to us.
With monuments as with men, position means everything.
The more you judge, the less you love.
A man's own vanity is a swindler that never lacks for a dupe.
Passion is born deaf and dumb.
The husband who leaves nothing to be desired is a doomed man.
Men may allow us to rise above them but they never forgive us for not sinking to their own level.
An entire city can slander a man but if he has no friends he will remain blissfully ignorant of it. Parallel Lines: Women and Love
In the first woman we love, we love everything. Growing older, we love the woman only.
In their first affairs women are in love with their lover, later they are in love With love.
The desire of the man is for the woman, but the desire of the woman is for the desire of the man.
Woman is a fortress that lowers its drawbridge not to surrender to the enemy but to capture him.
Laugh now, but one day we'll be in charge. [Over the stencil of a chimpanzee.]
It's not a rat race. [Next to a stencil of a rat holding a paint-roller.]
I 'm out of bed and dressed—what more do you want? [Next to a stencil of a rat holding a paintbrush.]
So little to say, and so much time . . . [Over a rat stencil.]
The joy of not being sold anything. [Spray-painted onto a blank street billboard.]
I need someone to protect me from all the measures they take in order to protect me. 
Anything that is worth doing has been done frequently. Things hitherto undone should be given, I suspect, a wide berth.
Good sense about trivialities is better than nonsense about things that matter.
To give and then not feel that one has given is the very best of all ways of giving.
There is much to be said for failure. It is much more interesting than success.
Only mediocrity can be trusted to be always at its best.
Nobody ever died of laughter. 
Brevity is power.
Adversity has the same effect on a man that severe training has on the pugilist: it reduces him to his fighting weight.
Genius after all ain't ennything more than elegant kommon sense.
Advice is like castor oil, easy enough to give but dreadful uneasy to take.
The best reformers the world haz ever seen are thoze who commense on themselfs.
As scarce as truth is, the supply has always been in excess of the demand.
Lazy men are alwuss the most posative. They are too lazy to inform themselfs, and too lazy to change their minds.
Flattery is like cologne water, to be smelt, not swallowed.
It's not only the most difficult thing to know one's self, but the most inconvenient.
Man waz kreated a little lower than the angels, and he haz been a gitting a little lower ever since.
Love looks through a telescope; envy through a microscope.
Most people when they come to you for advice, come to have their own opinions strengthened, not corrected.
There is no greater evidence of superior intelligence than to be surprised at nothing.
There is no revenge so complete as forgiveness.
The best way to convince a fool that he is wrong is to let him have his own way.
Mankind loves misterys—a hole in the ground excites more wonder than a star in the heavans.
The man who never makes enny blunders seldum makes enny good hits.
It ain't often that a man's reputation outlasts his money.
There are lots of people who mistake their imagination for their memory.
To bring up a child in the way he should go, travel that way yourself once in a while.
The top rounds ov a ladder are always the most dangerous.
Be like a postage stamp. Stick to one thing until you get there.
The rarest thing a man ever duz iz the best he can.
To finish is to win. Parallel Lines: Josh Billings and Mark Twain
Put not oph till to-morrow what can be enjoyed to-day.
Do not put off till tomorrow what can be put off till day-after-tomorrow just as well.
It is better to know nothing than to know what ain't so.
It ain't what you don't know that gets you into trouble. It's what you know for sure that just ain't so.
Remember the poor, it costs nothing.
To be good is noble, but to show others how to be good is nobler, and no trouble.
When we are incapable of recognizing the laws of necessity, we believe ourselves to be free.
The Germans pride themselves very much on their modesty; to me that seems as if the hare wanted to pride itself on its timidity.
You can be honest after all, but it's stupid to let others notice.
You have no one to fear as much as yourself.
Ministers fall like buttered slices of bread: usually on their good side.
Reason is to intellect as a cookbook is to the pie.
They do not want freedom of the press because they believe that the wind will turn with the weathervane.
History teaches us virtue, but nature never ceases to teach us vice.
The light cast by so-called official announcements is often nothing more than a will-o'-the-wisp that leads us into swamps.
The secret of any power is this: to know that others are even more cowardly than we are.
Need what recently didn't exist.
I choose how to live a life I didn't choose.
Irony is the only way I can take myself seriously.
Shop as though money were a consensual hallucination.
Accessorize your rebellion.
Take the kids to see a replica of what never was.
Be profoundly superficial.
Love the right wrong person.
It's not whether I arrive; it's how I lose my way.
The deeper my crisis, the clearer my choices. 
The atmosphere of Venus consists of ammonia, sulfur, and nitric oxide.
Man must have lived there once.
Crime is rampant. We even steal away from responsibility.
I no longer come to blows with others. I've discovered that those I'd like to clout around the ears have nothing between them in the first place.
Why computers? Politicians are far more calculating.
We have nothing to say to each other. But we don't talk about it.
The spine is man's Achilles heel.
Jesus chased the moneychangers from the temple. Now they are everywhere.
God created the world. He was a satirist. Parallel Lines: Gray Cells
The gray cells of dogmatists are completely escape-proof.
Thinking is criminal. After all, thoughts are born in gray cells.
Life is the only game in which the object of the game is to learn the rules.
No man is an island but some of us are long peninsulas.
I feel much better, now that I've given up hope.
If we all work together, we can totally disrupt the system.
If you're careful enough, nothing bad or good will ever happen to you.
I could do great things, if I weren't so busy doing little things.
In order to discover who you are, first learn who everybody else is, and you're what's left.
If you can't learn to do it well, learn to enjoy doing it badly. 
The lesser evil usually lasts longer.
In life one has to go to the funerals of the people we like and the birthdays of those we don't.
Difficult questions should be answered before they are asked.
Sometimes difficulties come because you expect them.
Some take revenge before any harm is done to them.
Correcting old mistakes is often more costly than making new ones.
Some must live with the consequences of what they didn't dare do.
Exceptions spread word of the rule.
One day the truth will emerge, like a corpse in the water.
Better to be the servant of many masters than of another servant.
A view through bars can spoil the prettiest landscape.
A step back can be incautious, too.
The height of luxury: own car, own house, own opinion.
Friend: someone who does you harm completely selflessly.
Under certain circumstances a wanted poster is a letter of recommendation.
The most difficult thing to find is the way to the signposts. 
All a rhetorician's rules Teach nothing but to name his tools.
What makes all doctrines plain and clear?
About two hundred pounds a year.
And that which was proved true before Prove false again? Two hundred more.
Neither have they hearts to stay, Nor wit enough to run away.
There are more fools than knaves in the world, else the knaves would not have enough to live upon.
He is a fool that hath nothing of philosophy in him, but not so much as he that has nothing else but philosophy in him.
Birds are taken with pipes that imitate their own voices, and men with those sayings that are most agreeable to their own opinions. 
We are like billiard balls in a game played by unskillful players, continually being nearly sent into a pocket, but hardly ever getting right into one, except by a fluke.
We are like thistledown blown about by the wind—up and down, here and there—but not one in a thousand ever getting beyond seed-hood.
All progress is based upon a universal innate desire on the part of every organism to live beyond its income.
The body is but a pair of pincers set over a bellows and a stewpan and the whole fixed upon stilts.
Morality is the custom of one's country and the current feeling of one's peers. Cannibalism is moral in a cannibal country.
Man is the only animal that can remain on friendly terms with the victims he intends to eat until he eats them.
Words are like money; there is nothing so useless, unless when in actual use.
Ideas are like shadows—substantial enough until we try to grasp them.
If we attend continually and promptly to the little that we can do, we shall ere long be surprised to find how little remains that we cannot do.
He alone can take well who can also make well.
The history of art is the history of revivals.
Hard-and-fast lines ever cut the fingers of those who draw them.
There is a miracle somewhere. At the point where two very large nothings have united to form a very little something.
It must be remembered that we have only heard one side of the case. God has written all the books.
Everyone should keep a mental waste-paper basket and the older he grows the more things he will consign to it—torn up to irrecoverable tatters.
Small things may be rehearsed, but the greatest are always do-or-die, neck-or-nothing matters.
To put one's trust in God is only a longer way of saying that one will chance it.
Paying debts is a luxury which we cannot all of us afford.
There is no such source of error as the pursuit of absolute truth.
Any fool can tell the truth, but it requires a man of some sense to know how to lie well.
Our understanding can burrow but a very small way into the foundations of our beliefs, and can only weaken rather than strengthen them by burrowing at all.
To know God better is only to realize more fully how impossible it is that we should ever know him at all.
You can do very little with faith, but you can do nothing without it.
To be dead is to be unable to understand that one is alive. Parallel Lines: Samuel Butler and Arthur Schopenhauer
People are lucky and unlucky not according to what they get absolutely, but according to the ratio between what they get and what they have been led to expect.
Virtue is a stranger in this world; and boundless egoism, cunning and malice are always the order of the day. It is wrong to deceive the young on this point, for it will only make them feel later on that their teachers were the first to deceive them.
Pain consists not in that which is now endured but in the strong memory of something better that is still recent. And so, happiness lies in the memory of a recent worse and the expectation of a better that is to come soon.
All enjoyment is really only negative, only has the effect of removing a pain, while pain or evil, on the other hand, is the actual positive element and is felt directly.
A man's style in any art should be like his dress—it should attract as little attention as possible.
Style is the physiognomy of the mind.
Obstacles are those frightful things that appear when you take your mind off your goals.
You will never find the other ocean if you never leave the shore.
The difference between medicine and poison is the dose.
Hope allows human beings to suffer, daily and eternally.
To believe one knows is to err.
Winners are losers with a new attitude. Parallel Lines: In the Know
The more you know, the more you know you don't know and the more you know that you don't know.
In order to know, there is no need to know that we know, much less to know that we know that we know.
"What can you expect?" he said. "That's what it is to be clumsy with one's hands.
One never manages to do anything successfully, even killing oneself." Essential Aphorisms
Courtiers are poor men who have become rich by begging.
In a country where everyone is trying to be noticed, it is better to be bankrupt than to be nothing.
Celebrity: the advantage of being known by those who do not know you.
A man must swallow a toad every morning if he wishes to be sure of finding nothing still more disgusting before the day is over.
Society, which is called the world, is nothing but the contention of a thousand clashing petty interests, an eternal conflict of all the vanities that cross each other, strike against each other, are wounded and humiliated by each other in turn, and expiate on the morrow, in the bitterness of defeat, the triumph of the day before. To live alone, to avoid the bruises of wretched scrapes in which one attracts all eyes one minute only to be trampled on the next, is to be what they call nothing, to have no existence.
Poor humanity!
Society is made up of two great classes: those who have more dinners than appetite, and those who have more appetite than dinners.
Love as it exists in society is merely the mingling of two fantasies and the contact of two skins.
Living is an ailment that is relieved every sixteen hours by sleep. A palliative. Death is the cure.
The nobility, say its members, are the intermediary between the king and the people . . . just as the hounds are the intermediary between the hunter and the hare.
For centuries public opinion has been the worst opinion of all.
The opinion of the public is a judgment which the honest man should never entirely accept and which he should never reject.
Not to be worked by anyone's hand, to be no one's man, to draw one's principles, one's feelings, from no one else, this is the rarest thing I have seen.
We must know how to perform the foolishness that our characters require.
There are few vices that will so readily prevent a man from having many friends as will the possession of inordinate talents or virtues.
Some things can be more easily rendered legal than legitimate.
To scorn money is to dethrone a king.
One is happy or unhappy as the result of a multitude of unseen things which one does not refer to and could not describe.
The contemplative life is often miserable. One must act more, think less, and not watch oneself live.
Persons of fashion have only to be herded together to fancy that they are in society.
Calumny is like some annoying wasp, against which one must make no move unless one is sure of killing it, or else it will return to the charge more furiously than ever.
Esteem is worth more than celebrity, respect is worth more than renown, and honor is worth more than fame.
He who leaves the game wins it. Parallel Lines: Happiness
"Happiness," said M—, "is not easily come by. It is very hard to find within ourselves, and impossible to find anywhere else."
We owe happiness to ourselves; let us bestow ourselves upon it.
We are no longer happy as soon as we wish to be happier.
Most folks are as happy as they make up their minds to be.
If you ever find happiness by hunting for it, you will find it, as the old woman did who found her lost spectacles, safe on her own nose all the time.
The secret of happiness is to admire without desiring. And that is not happiness.
Happiness cannot be pursued; it can only ensue.
True deception goes unnoticed.
Wind supports all flags no matter what the flag supports.
Headstone: death's bookmark.
A bridge has no allegiance to either side.
The distance a goldfish swims is not controlled by the bowl.
Audience: play watched from the stage.
The more a ball bounces the less it bounces.
Puppets go to sleep the moment they break free from their strings.
Each page in a book knows its opposite page by heart.
Glass is silent until broken. 
Those who are consumed with curiosity about other people but who do not love them should write maxims.
Life is a maze in which we take the wrong turning before we have learned to walk.
Literature is the art of writing something that will be read twice;journalism what will be grasped at once.
An outside job is harmful to a writer in proportion as it approximates to his vocation.
There is no more somber enemy of good art than the pram in the hall.
Boys do not grow up gradually. They move forward in spurts like the hands of clocks in railway stations.
Promise is guilt—promise is the capacity for letting people down.
The fate of the entertainer is simply to go on till he wakes up one morning to find himself obscure.
Whom the gods wish to destroy they first call promising.
From now on specialize; never again make any concession to the ninety-nine percent of you which is like everybody else at the expense of the one percent which is unique. 
You are either with us or against yourselves.
How can we not be proud of our past when each new day is worse than the one before?
We should fight to the last man? Only the last man can say that.
We made many mistakes. Please arrest those who supported us. 
Women are exchanged; children accumulate.
In life, one is always alone. The important thing is to know with whom!
Real independence consists in choosing on whom we depend.
The future is nothing but some present rushing to meet us.
The feeling of superiority starts as soon as, exiting a cinema, your eyes meet the eyes of those waiting in line to get in.
Sincere people are executioners.
A boss: the less he speaks, the more he is heard.
One dies of everything, mostly of living. 
The opposite of love is not disgust, nor even indifference. It is lies.
Accordingly, the opposite of hatred is truth.
Everyone is curious about what happens after death? After death, history begins.
Genius is an immortal version of an ordinary human being.
Humor is the inversion of life, the inversion of common sense, the smile of reason.
Tourism is the vital function of the idle.
Talent is like lust: hard to conceal and even harder to stimulate. 
Numbers are the only thing mathematicians can count on.
The salmon swims against the current simply because he wants to be like the others.
The wrong I commit is that I'm right.
Lowering my head, I raise my salary.
All my slavery is the fruit of a free choice.
The ideal moments for thinking are the intervals between one thought and another.
Hope dies last but sickens first.
Admitting one's fear is already a good step toward panicking. 
Not every improvement is for the better.
An apology—like a cleaned stain; some of it still remains.
The more you know, the more ignorant you should appear.
It is hard to get to the summit, harder to stay on it, but hardest to come down.
No man has yet died of love.
Where is the man who is not another man in his dressing gown than in a tailcoat.
There is no story stupid enough that someone somewhere won't believe it.
A rich man who doesn't squander his wealth robs the whole world.
It is better to wipe away a hundred tears than to make even one flow.
Many a great man, standing before the mirror, beholds a cheat.
A bankruptcy is the shortest way to a fortune.
A donation is an advance on ingratitude.
The debt of an obligation is difficult to calculate, that is why it is not easily paid.
Be thrifty to be thriftless.
There is no armor the bullet of injustice will not pierce.
Every owl is stupid by day. 
